{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15960\viewh16540\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 BaitsTools Change Log
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 aln2baits
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Version 0.3
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Parameter header updated
\f1 \

\f0 Program now updates to screen when major steps started\
Completely revised Hap_Window.var_permutations to get all possible permutations and allow wobble bases\
Haplotype definition \'91variants\'92 is now \'91variant\'92 for consistency\
Updated the \'91variant\'92 options in aln2baits to use all permutations rather than random selection of original sequences. Output headers now say \'91Alignment\'92 since they do not correspond to original sequences.\
Option \'91no_indels\'92 moved to general filtration option (now -I rather than -N)\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \
Version 0.2
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 FASTA headers of generated baits now match the original source sequence.
\f1 \

\f0 Corrected double-tabbed output in parameters output.
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Version 0.1
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Preliminary script to generate weighted bait set from a fasta alignment
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf0 annot2baits
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Version 0.1
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Preliminary script to generate baits from an annotation file and a reference sequence
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 baitslib
\b0\fs24  (formerly filter_probes)
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Version 0.4
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Added an exception to write_baits so that checkbaits does not output unfiltered baits
\f1 \

\f0 Added @qual to class Fa_Seq to allow it to handle FASTQ files
\f1 \

\f0 Modified read_fasta so that it can read standard format FASTQ\
read_fasta can now separate NCBI-style descriptions from sequence names
\f1 \

\f0 Fixed filter_baits bug that always filtered by bait length completeness
\f1 \

\f0 GC content output in parameters file in % rather than decimal
\f1 \

\f0 filter_baits can filter by quality scores\
filter_baits can remove sequences with Ns and indel characters (-)
\f1 \

\f0 Improved melting temperature calculations to use formamide concentrations and calculate for DNA hybridization
\f1 \

\f0 Added method \'93mean\'94 to calculate mean value of an array\
Chromo_SNP updated to allow vcf metadata and store original vcf/stacks lines
\f1 \

\f0 selectsnps now uses Chromo_SNPs for the SNP data to allow metadata
\f1 \

\f0 snps_to_baits uses Chromo_SNPs and improved vcf2baits algorithm
\f1 \

\f0 snps_to_baits now updates to screen when major steps started\
snps_to_baits can use quality scores as necessary. Parameter header updated.\
snps_to_baits can apply alternate alleles (including indels) from stacks2baits and vcf2baits\
Fixed bug in snps_to_baits that reread reference sequence every time run in stacks2baits
\f1 \

\f0 New method get_command_line gets complete command-line for user reference
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Version 0.3
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Added class Chromo_SNP as a container for SNP data
\f1 \

\f0 selectsnps method added (moved from vcf2baits)
\f1 \

\f0 snps_to_baits method added (moved from vcf2baits)
\f1 \

\f0 Modified write_baits to allow for different filestems (but defaulting to $options.infile)
\f1 \

\f0 Fixed bug in params file output that reported raw number of GCes rather than GC%
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Version 0.2
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 filter_probes renamed baitslib
\f1 \

\f0 The word \'91probe\'92 changed to \'91baits\'92 in all instances for clarity
\f1 \

\f0 New method read_fasta handles basic fasta input
\f1 \

\f0 read_fasta removes #circ from appropriate sequence headers
\f1 \

\f0 New class Fa_Seq is container for fasta format
\f1 \

\f0 Fa_Seq is compatible with multi-line sequence fasta files
\f1 \

\f0 New method write_probes handles basic output
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Version 0.1
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 filter_probes definition removed into separate script for access by other scripts
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 \
baitstools
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Version 0.5
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Added checkbaits method
\f1 \

\f0 Added annot2baits method\
Added code for new command-line options
\f1 \

\f0 Removed non-functional code in baitstools main help output
\f1 \

\f0 Help/interactive mode text cleaned up
\f1 \

\f0 baitstools builds a FASTQ translation hash at the start-up to speed up FASTQ numeric translation in subprograms
\f1 \

\f0 Changed the vcf2baits/stacks2baits default to outputting baits\
Options -e and -R (new) override -p (no baits) to fix conflicts\
Choosing parameters forces the required filtration options
\f1 \

\f0 Commented code more thoroughly to describe the variables
\f1 \

\f0 Program outputs the complete command line to screen on start-up
\f1 \

\f0 Program outputs \'93Program complete\'94 on completion.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Version 0.4
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Added stacks2baits method
\f1 \

\f0 Fixed bug in selectsnps algorithm call that asked to filter baits even when bait output not selected
\f1 \

\f0 Set tilebaits, coords2baits, and aln2baits to have $options.baits = true since these algorithms only output baits
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Version 0.3
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Added aln2baits to general help output for baitstools
\f1 \

\f0 Fixed no_tiling bug for command-line -N option
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Version 0.2
\b0  #First version but to make consistent with package numbering
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Allowed tiling offsets to be greater than bait length for everything except selectsnps (since it works differently)
\f1 \

\f0 changed bait length to -L to make consistent across scripts
\f1 \

\f0 Allowed selectsnps to directly determine bait length (but lenaft and lenbef override if specified)
\f1 \

\f0 changed tiling offset to -O from -v to allow -v to be version
\f1 \

\f0 New front-end for baitstools package (hence inconsistent version number)
\f1 \

\f0 The word \'91probe\'92 changed to \'91baits\'92 in all instances for clarity
\f1 \

\f0 Set default for tiling offset as 20 bp (from 60 for select_snps and 25 for tile_probes)
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 checkbaits
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Version 0.1
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Preliminary script to filter predefined baits through quality filters
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 coords2baits
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Version 0.2
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Updated algorithm to use quality scores as necessary
\f1 \

\f0 Program now updates to screen when major steps started
\f1 \

\f0 Popvar @alleles replaces @pnuc and @qnuc, which were otherwise unused
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Version 0.1
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Preliminary script to turn a coordinates table and a reference sequence into baits.
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 stacks2baits
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Version 0.2
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Bait output now default
\f1 \

\f0 Fixed possible bug in Popvar.in_hwe? method that used local variable rather pfreq rather than @pfreq
\f1 \

\f0 Chromo_SNPs passed directly to selectsnps and snps_to_baits
\f1 \

\f0 stacks2baits outputs filtered stacks summary tsvs (new method write_stacks)
\f1 \

\f0 Improved method to read tsvs using array splitting rather than a cumbersome loop
\f1 \

\f0 Program now updates to screen when major steps started\
Fixed bug in that reread reference sequence every time snps_to_baits run in stacks2baits
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Version 0.1
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Preliminary script to turn a Stacks summary tsv file and a reference sequence into baits.
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 tilebaits 
\b0\fs24 (formerly tile_probes)
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Version 0.4
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Parameter header updated 
\f1 \

\f0 Updated algorithm to use quality scores as necessary
\f1 \

\f0 Program now updates to screen when major steps started
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Version 0.3
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Corrected double-tabbed output in parameters output.
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Version 0.2
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 tilebaits can now take internally passed input rather than just from command-line
\f1 \

\f0 Input now controlled by baitstools frontend. Converted to method tilebaits.
\f1 \

\f0 renamed tilebaits for consistency
\f1 \

\f0 The word \'91probe\'92 changed to \'91baits\'92 in all instances for clarity
\f1 \

\f0 Input now controlled by baitslib read_fasta function
\f1 \

\f0 Output now controlled by baitslib write_probes function
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Version 0.1
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Preliminary script to divide genic/genomic sequences into tiled baits
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 vcf2baits
\b0\fs24  (formerly selectsnps, select_snps)
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Version 0.8
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Bait output now default
\f1 \

\f0 Now uses Chromo_SNPs  to allow metadata
\f1 \

\f0 Program now updates to screen when major steps started
\f1 \

\f0 Revised algorithm to store original lines when reading vcf. No longer needs to reread vcfs when writing output.
\f1 \

\f0 Output vcfs now have BaitsTools command lines written into them for reference\
Added option to filter vcf variants by QUAL scores
\f1 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 \
Version 0.7
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Method involved in actual snp selection moved to baitslib as method selectsnps.
\f1 \

\f0 Method involved in bait generation moved to baitslib as method snp_to_baits.
\f1 \

\f0 Renamed to vcf2baits to be more consistent with nomenclature of other subprograms.
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Version 0.6
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Input now controlled by baitstools frontend. Converted to method selectsnps.
\f1 \

\f0 renamed selectsnps for consistency
\f1 \

\f0 The word \'91probe\'92 changed to \'91baits\'92 in all instances for clarity
\f1 \

\f0 Most output now controlled by baitslib write_probes function
\f1 \

\f0 Reference sequence now read in through read_fasta function in baitslib
\f1 \

\f0 Can now tile/get complete baits across circular genomes
\f1 \

\f0 Corrected probe locations for 0-based indexing of Ruby
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Version 0.5
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Incorporated into BaitsTools package
\f1 \

\f0 filter_probes definition removed into separate script for access by other scripts
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Version 0.4
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Added the option to produce tiled baits for SNPs.
\f1 \

\f0 Added the option to output coordinates tables for the probes.
\f1 \

\f0 Added the option to scale number of SNPs per contig by contig length.
\f1 \

\f0 Added the option to filter by bait melting temperature.
\f1 \

\f0 Added -e option to output probe sequences without selecting SNPs.
\f1 \

\f0 Added the ability to output a table of bait filtering statistics.
\f1 \

\f0 Made filtering option output filtered VCF as well as selected VCF.
\f1 \

\f0 Changed GC filtering defaults and allowed this filter to be skipped if desired.
\f1 \

\f0 Fixed 'ouput' typo
\f1 \

\f0 Removed unnecessary ::Version variable
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Version 0.3
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 GC content is now floating point.
\f1 \

\f0 Altered the code to use OptionParser/ostruct.
\f1 \

\f0 Set defaults for all major variables.
\f1 \

\f0 Fixed a bug that terminated reference sequence chromosome names only at spaces rather than line breaks.
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Version 0.2
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Filters probes based on GC content, length.
\f1 \

\f0 Improved handling of Y/N prompts.
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Version 0.1
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Selects SNPs from VCFs.
\f1 \

\f0 Outputs probes based on reference sequence.
\f1 \

\f0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf0 Known Issues
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\ri0\sl276\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 Stacks uses 0-based sequence indexing. BaitsTools uses 1-based indexing (although Ruby is 0-based). This means SNPs will be 1 nucleotide position different than the TSV file.
\f1 \

\f0 vcf2baits scaling requires contig info field with lengths
\f1 \

\f0 gets command incompatible with windows ruby interpreter (v. 1.9.2)
\f1 \

\f0 Wobble bases in bait sequences not handled
\f1 \

\f0 aln2baits and coords2baits cannot handle circular sequences
\f1 \

\f0 baits cannot go around circular sequences more than once in each direction
\f1 \
}